# ABOUT
The project is an endless running video game in which an explorer aims at obtaining maximum score by dodging all the intervening obstacles. The program behind the game is written in Python. The main module that dictates the entire setting is pygame. The game starts whith a score set to zero and number of lives set to five. As the game progresses, the speed of all the components/objects on the game window increases until it reaches a saturation point. Additional information about the time it takes for the game to reach saturation and the rate at which the speeds of various components increase is mentioned in the code under the class 'game'. Apart from the graphical user interface that enables the user to control the player, there are various menu options to pause/unpause the game, to pause/unpause the background music, to sideline the sound effects associated with various activities and components and to restart and close the game.

# CONTROLS
The actions/movements associated with the player are jumping and sliding. A single click on spacebar causes the player to jump and a single click on down-arrow causes the player to slide. Besides the mouse has to be used to navigate through the menu options.

# EXPERIENCE
The game can definitely not compete with other such running video games like 'Temple Run' in terms of graphics, flexibility or responsiveness but it was a very fun experience. I aimed at building my skillset in some shallow areas of game development to eventually be able to build games those teach/visualize some moderately or extremely complex-to-understand algorithms of Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence or Game Theory. It was my first project in pygame and it took me more than 20 hours to write its 749 lines of code. I am thinking of improving the game and making it more user-friendly by adding an autoplayer feauture using NEAT(NeuroEvolution Of Augmenting Topologies). I might add it in the near future.

# REFERENCES
All the audio clips and sprite images are downloaded from the internet. None of them are self composed. Some of the content was available on Github. Refer to [OpenGameArt](https://opengameart.org/) to choose your preferrable graphics and sound effects.
